[Doc] Add Keycloak login and config docs (#93)
nebari-dev/nebari-docs: docs/docs/how-tos/How to authenticate using Keycloak.md

---
id: login-keycloak
title: How to authenticate using Keycloak and launch your server
description: |
  This is a how-to for authenticating using Keycloak.
---

> 

Reviewer: adding md headers give us navigation links on the righthand side

This guide aims to give a basic overview of the Nebari login process. Your organization's Nebari deployment will likely have a slightly different process due to the many

> authentication providers that Nebari can integrate with.

Reviewer: Oh, I thought keycloak WAS a provider.... 
```suggestion
authentication providers available for Nebari within Keycloak.
```

> 1. Connect to your Nebari cluster, as an example your cluster domain should look like `https://nebari-demo.nebari.dev`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Connect to your Nebari cluster

For example, your cluster domain may look something like `https://nebari-demo.nebari.dev`.
```

![Nebari login screen](/img/how-tos/nebari_login_screen.png)

Nebari now uses an open source tool called [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) for user management. This makes it a little challenging to detail the exact process as it might differ greatly between
authentication providers ([LDAP](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/LDAP), [OAuth 2.0](https://oauth.net/2/), passwordless authentication, password-based authentication and many others). For more information on how to configure Keycloak, and add new users, make sure to check [How to configure Keycloak and add new users](/how-tos/configuring-keycloak) sections of our docs.

2. Authentication will differ based on the [Identity providers](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#_identity_broker) chosen by your organization, in this example, we will use a simple password-based authentication.

![Nebari Keycloak auth screen](/img/how-tos/keycloak_nebari_login.png)

Once authenticated, you will be forwarded to the main hub page where you have access to `Token` management, JupyterLab server access, and other features like
`Dashboards` and `Admin` management.

![Nebari main hub screen](/img/how-tos/nebari_main_hub_page.png)

> 3. Now, click in `Start My Server`, you will be prompted with a set of profiles that are available for the authenticated user. Your given selections will likely differ from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Starting your server

Now, click in `Start My Server`, you will be prompted with a set of profiles that are available for the authenticated user. Your given selections will likely differ from
```

the image shown.

The customized profiles will give you access to fixed cloud resources. For example, you could choose a resource with 2 CPUs, 8 GB RAM, and 1 dedicated GPU, all of

> which is configured by your administrator. A more detailed explanation of dedicated profiles can be found in the [Profiles] section of

Author: yup, they will go in the advanced configuration section.

the advanced configuration page.

![Nebari select profile](/img/how-tos/nebari_select_profile.png)

> 4. Once an appropriate profile has been selected, click `start`. At this point, your JupyterHub instance will be launched, a step which may take up to several minutes due to Nebari use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Starting your server

Once an appropriate profile has been selected, click `start`. At this point, your JupyterHub instance will be launched, a step which may take up to several minutes due to Nebari's usage
```

Author: We pull then not build, but you are right. The first person will probable have to wait until the images are present in the current node, and the later user will be able to spawn the same instance much faster. But, because we have node scaling, we can have roughly two users for each node. This means that for a third new user, we will scale up another node where we will have to download the image again.

of autoscaling under the hood.

Ultimately this autoscaling feature helps reduce costs when the cluster is idle. A successful launch should look similar to the image below.

> ![Nebari start server](/img/how-tos/nebari_server_start.png)

Author: Sure, I will add something.

We were even recently discussing of refactoring all that to avoid any misleading.

> ![Nebari start server](/img/how-tos/nebari_server_start.png)

Author: Added a dropdown box, discussing this and an image

Once your JupyterHub instance has been launched you will notice a selection of available Python environments. These environments will also represent the different kernel choices
available for your notebooks. They are created and managed by conda-store and can be easily configured. Learn more at

> [Managing environments].

Reviewer: link to this page https://www.nebari.dev/tutorials/creating-new-environments

![Nebari kernel selection](/img/how-tos/nebari_kernel_selection.png)

From the Launcher, you can choose a JupyterLab notebook with a given conda environment. Note that kernels can take several seconds to become responsive. The circle in the top
right-hand corner is a good indicator of the status of the kernel. A lightning bold means that the kernel has started, but it is not yet ready to run code. An open circle means

> it's ready.

Reviewer: This feels like it belongs in the Nebari 101 document instead of the keycloak, but I'm not sure. What do you think?

Author: removed and added a Next steps pointing to Nebari 101 (future link)

---
id: login-keycloak

> title: How to authenticate using Keycloak and launch your server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Authenticate using Keycloak and launch your server
```

Reviewer 2: Removing How to from titles as it is redundant and takes plenty space

description: |

>   This is a how-to for authenticating using Keycloak.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  A step-by-step guide to authenticating using Keycloak.
```

---

# How to authenticate using Keycloak and launch your server

This guide aims to give a basic overview of the Nebari login process. Your organization's Nebari deployment will likely have a slightly different process due to the many

> authentication providers available for Nebari can within Keycloak.

Reviewer 2: Seems there is a word missing - integrate?

Reviewer 2: you have a nice wording later on what is covered here - would suggest moving it here instead

## 1. Connect to your Nebari cluster

For example, your cluster domain should look like `https://nebari-demo.nebari.dev`.

Once on the site, you will be prompted by a login, similar to
the login page shown in the image below.

> ![Nebari login screen](/img/how-tos/nebari_login_screen.png)

Reviewer 2: Note here we will need to update the screenshots to replace QHub for nebari

```suggestion
![Nebari login screen](/img/how-tos/nebari_login_screen.png)
```

> Nebari now uses an open source tool called [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) for user management. This makes it a little challenging to detail the exact process as it might differ greatly between

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nebari uses [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/), an open source tool for user management. This makes it a little challenging provide thorough instructions for all use cases as it might differ significantly between
```

> authentication providers ([LDAP](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/LDAP), [OAuth 2.0](https://oauth.net/2/), passwordless authentication, password-based authentication and many others). For more information on how to configure Keycloak, and add new users, make sure to check [How to configure Keycloak](/how-tos/configuring-keycloak) sections of our docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authentication providers ([LDAP](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/LDAP), [OAuth 2.0](https://oauth.net/2/), passwordless authentication, password-based authentication and many others). For more information on how to configure Keycloak, and add new users, make sure to check the [How to configure Keycloak](/how-tos/configuring-keycloak) sections of our docs.
```

:::warning
As Nebari **does not** create a Keycloak user for you during deployment, the following steps assumes that your Nebari administrator have already created a Keycloak user in the admin console for you. If not, follow the steps in [Adding new users to Keycloak](/how-tos/configuring-keycloak#adding-a-nebari-user) to create a Keycloak user.

> :::

Reviewer 2: Maybe this should be moved higher up in the document under a "Pre-requisites" section

## 2. Authenticate with your provider

> Authentication will differ based on the [Identity providers](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#_identity_broker) chosen by your organization, in this example, we will use a simple password-based authentication.

Reviewer 2: This disclosure of the scope should be higher up (see other comment)

> ![Nebari Keycloak auth screen](/img/how-tos/keycloak_nebari_login.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Nebari Keycloak auth screen - shows a form to provide username or password or to authenticate through GitHub](/img/how-tos/keycloak_nebari_login.png)
```

Once authenticated, you will be forwarded to the main JupyterHub page where you have access to `Token` management, JupyterLab server access, and other `Dashboards`. If you are an admin, you'll also have access to `Admin` management.

> ![Nebari main hub screen](/img/how-tos/nebari_main_hub_page.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Nebari dashboard main screen - displays a button "Start my server"](/img/how-tos/nebari_main_hub_page.png)
```

## 3. Selecting a Profile

> Now, click in `Start My Server`, you will be prompted with a set of profiles that are available for the authenticated user. Your given selections will likely differ from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, click on the  `Start My Server` button, and you will be prompted with a set of available profiles for the authenticated user. Your given selections will likely differ from
```

the image shown.

The customized profiles will give you access to fixed cloud resources. In this example, you could choose a resource with 1 CPUs and 4 GB of RAM or a resource with 2 CPU and 8 GB of RAM.
These options are configured by your administrator. A more detailed explanation of dedicated profiles can be found in the [Profiles] section of
the advanced configuration page.

> ![Nebari select profile](/img/how-tos/nebari_select_profile.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Nebari dashboard select server screen - showing a small and medium instance option](/img/how-tos/nebari_select_profile.png)
```

## 4. Starting your server

> Once an appropriate profile has been selected, click `start`. At this point, your JupyterHub instance will be launched, a step which may take up to several minutes due to Nebari use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once an appropriate profile has been selected, click on the `Start` button. At this point, your JupyterHub instance will be launched, a step which may take up to several minutes due to the
```

> of autoscaling under the hood.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
autoscaling that happens under the hood.
```

Ultimately this autoscaling feature helps reduce costs when the cluster is idle. A successful launch should look similar to the image below.

> ![Nebari start server](/img/how-tos/nebari_server_start.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Nebari dashboard - screen showing a progress bar for a JupyterHUb server launch status progress](/img/how-tos/nebari_server_start.png)
```

<details>
<summary>Event Log</summary>

> During this time you might see some log messages regarding the autoscaling process. Those logs can be fully expanded by clinking in the **Event Log** button. They should look similar to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might see some log messages during this time regarding the autoscaling process. Those logs can be fully expanded by clicking on the **Event Log** button. They should look similar to the following:
```

<!-- Needs to cut down this image -->

> ![Nebari event log](/img/how-tos/keycloak_start_event_logs.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Nebari dashboard - server startup page displaying a series of log messages and a progress bar during the setup step](/img/how-tos/keycloak_start_event_logs.png)
```

</details>

:::warning

> The starting up sequence can take up to several minutes, depending on the size of the cluster. If the server is not accessible **after 10 minutes**, an error will be shown and you will be redirected to the main hub page. Please check the troubleshooting section of our docs for more information.

Reviewer 2: Add link to troubleshooting

:::

## Next Steps

> Now you are ready to fully use all the features of your Jupyterlab instance. Please check our [Nebari 101] section for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you are ready to fully use all the features of your JupyterHub instance. Make sure to check our [Nebari 101] section for more information.
```

<!-- Once your JupyterHub instance has been launched you will notice a selection of available Python environments. These environments will also represent the different kernel choices
available for your notebooks. They are created and managed by conda-store and can be easily configured. Learn more at
[Managing environments](/tutorials/creating-new-environments).

![Nebari kernel selection](/img/how-tos/nebari_kernel_selection.png)

From the Launcher, you can choose a JupyterLab notebook with a given conda environment. Note that kernels can take several seconds to become responsive. The circle in the top
right-hand corner is a good indicator of the status of the kernel. A lightning bold means that the kernel has started, but it is not yet ready to run code. An open circle means

> it's ready. -->

Reviewer 2: Does this need work or removing?
